# Decorating Gnome
## Widget & Extensions
How to install gnome extensions:
1. Install browser extensions, enter [gnome extension official website](extensions.gnome.org), and use the tip above the page to install a browser extension that suits it.
2. Install native host connector, for Manjaro Linux, use the command below:
```bash
sudo pacman -S gnome-browser-connector
```
3. Open [gnome extension official website](extensions.gnome.org), search for the one you prefer, turn the button on on the specific page to install it.
### For Top Bar
* `Applications Menu`: To balance the white space in top bar.
* `Clear Top Bar` and `Transparent Top Bar`: Make top bar transparent when necessary.
* `Tray Icons: Reloaded`: Provide tray icon port.
### For Dock (Only Available on Xorg)
* Install `plank` in your system, in Manjaro, use the command below:
  ```bash
  sudo pacman -S plank
  ```
* Install gnome ext `Dash to Plank`.
* Install gnome ext `Compiz alike magic lamp effect` for better animation when window appears and disappears.
### For Others
* `Tiling Assistant`: Improve your experience when tiling windows.
* `Removable Drive Menu`: Might be useful. Just enable it because it's pre-installed.
* `Extension List`: To better organize your gnome exts.
### For Touchpad Gestures
* `X11 Gestures`: You might get a more detailed explanation below.
### For User Themes
* `User Themes`: You can just enable it because generally speaking it's pre-installed.
## Look & Feel
* Install `whitesur-gtk-theme-git`, you can either install from the [source code](https://github.com/vinceliuice/WhiteSur-gtk-theme), or when using Archlinux based linux distro install with command line:
  ```bash
  yay whitesur-gtk-theme-git # Replace yay with other AUR helper you prefer
  ```
* Enable it in app **Tweaks** in catagory **Appearance**, remember to modify both **Shell** and **Legacy Applications**, I'd like to use *whitesur-dark-green*.
* Btw, the author of this theme make other mac-like themes, you can check it out on [his github repos](https://github.com/vinceliuice/).
## Touchpad & Gesture
* If you're using **Gnome (On Wayland)** instead of **Gnome On Xorg** then skip to the next step. Install gnome ext`X11 Gestures` (see details above), along with app **touchegg** and its gui client **touche** (you can find both of them in official repo of Archlinux). Remember to enable its service after installing using command:
  ```bash
  sudo systemctl enable --now touchegg
  ```
  Btw, **touche** and **touchegg** provide some other very fancy features you should use that are also available on other wms.
* First make sure you have installed `xf86-input-synaptics` and `xf86-input-libinput`, then enable 1-finger-click and 2-finger-click feature: create a sh file with the contents:
  ```bash
  #!/bin/bash
  synclient \
	TapButton1=1 \ # 1-finger-click for left mouse click
	TapButton2=3 \ # 2-finger-click for right mouse click
  ;
  ```
  Make it executable, and move it to the folder `~/.config/autostart/`, so that the setting won't be overrided by gnome.
  Btw, this command/file is also useful in other wms.
## Others
### How To Start Gnome from cmd
1. Install `gdm`.
2. Using cmd:
   ```bash
   systemctl start gdm.service
   ```
   Mind that you can log out to cmd interface like that one in `xfce4`.